WHAT YOU CAN SEE
================

A plan for the air between you and the thing you are looking at: what
stops you seeing it, what colour the gap is, what the gap is made of at
four in the morning as against half past five, what happens to all of it
when it rains, and what the engine is allowed not to draw as a result.

Occlusion culling, fog, a sky that changes, a fog that matches the sky,
levels of detail, distance culling, time of day and weather are written
here as ONE system, because they are one system. They are all the same
question asked from different ends — how far can you see, and what is
in the way — and every version of this that ships as seven features
ends up with a fog colour that does not match its own horizon.

This is the companion to TOWN.txt and neither waits on the other.
Everything here is worth doing to the strip mall as it stands; all of
it is REQUIRED before twenty-five blocks of town can be drawn at all.

WHAT IS BUILT OF IT, as of the commit that carries this line: phases 1
to 6 — the air and the smoke as two terms, the sky baked in the page
(js/skyart.js), the outdoor light as a uniform, the clock and the
keyframes (js/weather.js), the four weathers, the wind as a vector,
the rain (js/rain.js) and what it does to the two fires, the sky ramp
in the palette, and the portal flood (Level.visibleSectors) with the
crowd, the wood and the fire pool reading it. Phase 7, the LOD ladder,
waits on TOWN.txt's per-block batching, as it says below. The README
has the account of what was built and what the screenshots said; the
rest of this file is the plan as it was written, kept as written.


WHAT IS THERE NOW
-----------------

Read out of the code, not remembered:

  the camera            PerspectiveCamera(72, 1.6, 4, 16000)   main.js:231
  the sky               a sphere of radius 4200 wearing a baked
                          equirect — a Polyhaven night, 1024 across the
                          horizon, snapped to the palette by
                          tools/bake-sky.mjs. Fullbright, fog off, depth
                          test off, renderOrder -1000, parked on the
                          camera every frame
  fog                   EXISTS AND IS SWITCHED OFF. fogColor 0x0a0a0c,
                          fogNear 300, fogFar 2200, fogDensity 0
  who turns it on       js/fire.js:620 — fogDensity climbs to at most
                          0.50 as the store burns and fogColor goes warm
  the falloff           lightFalloff 3400, stretched 3.4x outdoors, and
                          minLight 0.22 lifted by 0.32 outdoors, so an
                          outdoor surface never goes below about 0.54
                          and stays visible to the far plane
  the banding           32 steps, floor(l * 32 + 0.5) / 32, and the fog
                          is mixed in AFTER it
  the palette           256 entries in 14 ramps and every one allocated:
                          grey 32, fire 44, bone/brown/red/flesh/green/
                          olive/blue/yellow/rust 16 each, cyan/purple/
                          pink 12 each. It sums to exactly 256
  the snap              a POST PASS at grid resolution — world into the
                          buffer, buffer onto the grid averaged and
                          dithered and snapped, grid onto the screen
  occlusion culling     none. There is no BSP, no PVS and no portal
                          walk. There is frustum culling per batch, a
                          distance cull on the forest chunks and a
                          cone-and-distance cull on the crowd
  the forest            chunks of 2048 with three LOD sizes (2048,
                          4096, 8192), bands at 0.28 and 0.56 of range,
                          a coarse chunk drawn only when every fine one
                          under it is far enough
  the crowd             700 billboards, frustumCulled = false because a
                          quad the shader spins has bounds that lie, so
                          Actor.render does an 80-degree cone and a
                          distance test by hand
  wind                  js/effects.js:32 — const WIND_X = 0.28, used by
                          three smoke emitters and nothing else
  time of day           none. It is always the same night
  weather               none

TWO OF THOSE LINES ARE THE WHOLE STORY. Fog exists and is switched off,
and there is no occlusion culling at all. What currently hides the far
end of the world is the far plane at 16000 cutting the forest floor, with
the sky sphere's own dark ground showing through the cut — which works
because it is night and the ground of a night panorama is black. It is
not a system. It is a coincidence that a change of the hour would end.

AND THE WIND'S COMMENT IS ALREADY WRONG. "The wind. The forest fire leans
with it too; see forest.js" — js/forest.js does not mention WIND_X. The
wind reaches three smoke emitters and stops.


THE THREE IDEAS
---------------

Everything below is one of these.

  ONE.   THE FOG IS THE SKY, SAMPLED. Not a colour that somebody tuned
         to look like the sky. The same texels.

  TWO.   THE FOG IS THE DRAW DISTANCE. The distance at which the air
         goes opaque is the distance past which there is provably
         nothing to draw, so the cull range is not a setting anybody
         tunes — it is read off the weather.

  THREE. OCCLUSION IS A PORTAL FLOOD. The map is sectors joined by
         two-sided lines, which is to say it is cells joined by
         portals, which is the exact input the oldest correct answer in
         the field takes. Build's renderer did this in 1996 and it is
         still what the data model wants.


THE SKY IS A PICTURE THAT THE PAGE BAKES
----------------------------------------

The sky is one of the four things in this game that came from outside —
"the people, the trees, the sky, and the gun" — and it is the only one
of the four that is a photograph of a thing that CHANGES. A night is
fine as a photograph. A dawn is not, because there are forty of them
between eleven at night and six in the morning.

The move is the one js/fireart.js already made when it took the fire's
strips back off the golf project: bake it in the page, at start-up, with
everything else.

  tools/bake-sky.mjs goes into the page as js/skyart.js and takes a
  TIME and a WEATHER instead of a JPEG. It writes a 1024 x 256 equirect,
  snapped to the palette with the same ordered dither everything else
  gets, exactly as the offline tool does today.

  js/sky.js does not change. It is handed a texture; it does not care
  where the texture came from. The sphere, the radius, the mirrored x,
  the depth-test-off and the parking on the camera all stand.

  THE PHOTOGRAPH IS KEPT. It is the star layer — it is a real night sky
  with a real Milky Way in it and nothing generated will beat it — and
  it is composited INTO the bake, at an opacity that goes to zero as
  the sun comes up. What the generator makes is the ramp underneath it,
  the sun or moon in it, and the glow where the light is coming from.

  IT IS RE-BAKED WHEN THE TIME HAS MOVED ENOUGH TO SHOW. A 1024 x 256
  target is a quarter of a megapixel; a dawn over six minutes wants
  about a bake every fifteen seconds, which is forty bakes a night.

AND IT MUST STAY A BAKED PICTURE, which is the part that is easy to get
wrong. tools/bake-sky.mjs says why in its own header: the runtime snap
would palette the sky anyway, and baking it is "what makes the dither
pattern sit still instead of crawling as you turn". A sky evaluated per
fragment gets the post pass's dither, which is computed in GRID space —
so the pattern would be nailed to the screen and would crawl across the
stars every time you moved the mouse. A baked sky's dither is nailed to
the sky. That one sentence decides the whole architecture.


THE FOG IS THAT PICTURE, SAMPLED
--------------------------------

The fog colour is a texel of the sky texture.

  vec3 dir = normalize(vWorld - cameraPosition);
  float az = atan(dir.z, dir.x);              // the renderer's z is the
                                              // map's minus y — see the
                                              // note in the README, it
                                              // matters here too
  vec3 air = texture2D(skyTex, vec2(az * INV_TWO_PI + 0.5, HORIZON_V)).rgb;

One fetch, from a texture that is a quarter of a megapixel and will live
in cache for ever. And it is not APPROXIMATELY the sky — it is the sky,
so it cannot drift out of agreement with it, because there is nothing to
keep in agreement. A wall at the end of the street fades into precisely
the colour of the sky immediately behind it, and the join is invisible
because there is no join.

It also makes the whole of the rest of this document nearly free:

  AT DAWN, looking east down Main Street, the far end of the street is
    rose, and looking west it is blue, and nobody wrote that down
  IN MIST, the sky bake is flat grey and so is the fog, in one change
  UNDER SMOKE, the sky bake gets the smoke over it and so does the fog
  AND THE FOREST'S FAR CUT DISAPPEARS, because the last thing drawn
    before the cut is already the colour of what shows through it. The
    far plane can then come IN, from 16000 to wherever the air goes
    opaque, which is idea two

HORIZON_V IS THE HORIZON ROW and not the fragment's own latitude. A wall
three thousand units away and forty units up is on the horizon to within
a degree; sampling its real elevation would cost a second fetch to fix a
thing nobody can see. If it ever matters — a gunship at 300 up seen from
underneath — it is one more uniform.

CHEAPER STILL, IF IT SHOWS: the horizon row copied into a 1024 x 1
texture at bake time, so the fog fetch touches one row instead of
walking into a 2D texture's mip chain. Measure first.


SMOKE IS NOT FOG AND THEY MUST NOT BE ONE UNIFORM
-------------------------------------------------

Today there is one fog and js/fire.js owns it. That has to become two
terms, because they are different things that happen to both be a mix
toward a colour:

  THE AIR      always on, colour from the sky texture, near and far from
                 the weather. It is the distance you can see.
  THE SMOKE    fire-driven, warm grey, and LIT BY THE FIRE UNDER IT —
                 which the current shader already gets right with
                 fogColor * max(l, 0.7), and that line should survive
                 word for word

The order is air first, then smoke, because smoke is between you and
everything INCLUDING the sky. Which exposes a bug that is invisible today
and will not be at dawn: the sky sphere has fog: false and depthTest:
false, so a store that is throwing a column of smoke four hundred units
wide does not grey its own sky. At night, against black, nobody can see
that. At half past five it is the first thing anyone notices.

  THE SKY GETS THE SMOKE TERM AT FULL DISTANCE. It does not get the air
  term at all, and the reason is a proof rather than a preference: the
  sky IS the air's colour, so mixing it toward itself is the identity.
  That is a line the smoke test can assert, and it should.


TIME OF DAY IS ONE NUMBER
-------------------------

A clock in hours, and everything else is a table lookup on it.

THE GAME IS A NIGHT, so the clock is a night and not a 24-hour cycle. A
full day is the same machinery with more rows in the table and no reason
to build it until somebody wants a daytime level.

  23:00  night          sun -38    stars, a sodium glow low in the west
                                     where the town is, the deep blue
                                     that a night sky actually is and
                                     that everyone paints as black
  02:00  the dead of it sun -52    the darkest it gets. The fire is the
                                     only light in the world and this is
                                     the hour the game is currently set
                                     at, always
  04:30  nautical dawn  sun -9     the east goes grey-blue. The stars
                                     start leaving, brightest last
  05:10  civil dawn     sun -4     the ramp opens: violet, then rose,
                                     then a cold gold along the horizon
  05:40  sunrise        sun  0     and the fire stops being the light

AND THAT IS A GAME DESIGN, NOT A LOOK. You have until dawn. Every hour
the fire is worth more and you are worth less, and at first light the
thing that made you powerful — being the only source of light for nine
thousand units — is just weather. Nothing in this plan is worth building
if that is not wanted; everything in it is nearly free if it is.

WHERE THE JUDGEMENT LIVES. The table above is JS: five keyframes, each a
set of colours and numbers, interpolated. The shader gets uniforms. This
is the same split the lighting already uses — the geometry builder bakes
the vertex light and the shader only bands it — and it is what makes the
part with all the taste in it testable in a headless test.

  THE TABLE GIVES         zenith, horizon and ground colours; the sun or
                            moon's direction and colour; how much star;
                            and the four numbers below
  THE UNIFORMS TAKE       skyLight, lightFalloff, minLight, fogNear,
                            fogFar
  AND NOTHING ELSE MOVES


AND THE OUTDOOR LIGHT MUST STOP BEING BAKED
-------------------------------------------

This is the one piece of engine work in this document that is not
optional, and it is three lines.

`Game.relight()` sets `s.light = s.ambient` for every outdoor sector and
skips the lamp walk. `js/mapgeo.js` then bakes that number into a vertex
attribute. So making the sky brighter at dawn means changing every
outdoor sector's light and calling `geo.rebuildStatic()` — a full rebuild
of the level's static geometry, which TOWN.txt already flags as a hitch
at ten milliseconds today and a much worse one over a town.

Doing that forty times a night, to make the light change smoothly, is
the wrong answer twice over.

  THE VERTEX ALREADY CARRIES `sky`, 0..1: how much of this surface's
  light comes from the sky rather than from a fitting. It is exactly the
  weight that is wanted. So add one uniform and let the shader do it:

    float l = mix(lightIn, max(lightIn, skyLight), sky);

  and then band as before. Indoors, sky is 0 and the line is the
  identity — nothing that exists changes by a shade. Under the canopy,
  sky is 0.55 and the dawn arrives half as fast, which is correct. In
  the car park it arrives in full.

Time of day then costs ONE UNIFORM WRITE PER FRAME and no rebuild at
all. It is also the thing that makes weather cheap, for the same reason.


WEATHER
-------

Four states and a wind. Each is a row of the same table the clock reads,
multiplied over it, so weather at 02:00 and weather at 05:10 are one
lookup and not eight hand-tuned combinations.

                    fogNear  fogFar   skyLight  stars  rain  wind
  CLEAR               1200    14000     x1.00    full    -   light
  OVERCAST             800     9000     x0.80    none    -   light
  RAIN                 500     5200     x0.70    none  heavy  strong
  MIST                 200     2600     x0.85    none    -   still

fogFar IS THE INTERESTING COLUMN and it is idea two: it is not a look
setting, it is the world's radius. In mist you draw 2,600 units of world
instead of 16,000, and the frame gets about six times cheaper in the
only place this renderer is ever expensive.

WHICH MEANS THE COST CEILING IS A CLEAR NIGHT. That is the case to
measure, to ship the settings against, and to put in the test. Every
other weather is the same frame with less in it. A weather system that
made the game slower would be a bad trade in a game that is about
watching one thing burn; this one makes it faster exactly when there is
more going on.

RAIN IS PARTICLES AND THEY ARE CHEAP. A box of streaks around the
camera, wrapped — two thousand instances, one draw, nothing simulated
and nothing collided. js/particles.js already exists and this is the
simplest thing it will ever be asked to do. Rain does not fall indoors,
which in a sector engine is free: a cell whose sector has a ceiling that
is not sky gets none.


RAIN FIGHTS THE FIRE
--------------------

And this is the only reason weather earns its place in THIS game rather
than in a prettier one.

`Fire.douse(x, y, strength, radius)` already exists, already falls off
round rather than square, and already clears the ember clock — which is
the difference the file's own comment draws between a fire that is out
and a fire that is sulking. Rain is that call, spread thin over every
outdoor cell, for ever.

  RAIN DAMPS OUTDOOR FUEL and slows spread across the car park and
    through the wood. The wood is fifty thousand firs and the wood is
    where a fire gets away from you; rain is the only thing in the
    design that could ever take that back
  IT DOES NOTHING INDOORS, because there is a roof
  UNTIL THE ROOF GOES. js/ruin.js already gutts a region and takes its
    deck off. A gutted sector is an outdoor sector for this purpose, and
    the rain gets in. BURN THE ROOF OFF A BUILDING AND THE WEATHER
    STARTS PUTTING THE REST OF IT OUT, which is a mechanic nobody has to
    write a line of fiction for and which every firefighter would
    recognise
  AND THE WIND BIASES SPREAD. js/fire.js:330 has four directions with
    symmetric link bits and no bias at all. A wind vector weights
    _trySpread's four candidates, so a fire runs downwind and creeps
    upwind, which is what makes a firebreak a decision rather than a
    rectangle

THE WIND BECOMES A VECTOR AND LEAVES js/effects.js. It is currently
WIND_X = 0.28 in one file, read by three smoke emitters, with a comment
claiming the forest leans with it that has not been true for some time.
It goes into the world state beside the clock, it gets a y, and the
three emitters, the forest's sway, the rain's slant and the fire's
spread all read the same two numbers. That is a deletion as much as an
addition.


OCCLUSION: THE PORTAL FLOOD
---------------------------

There is no occlusion culling. The map is a set of regions joined by
two-sided lines. A two-sided line is a PORTAL — the README says so in
its own words, "two sides and it is a HOLE between two sectors" — and a
graph of cells joined by portals is the input to the cheapest exact
visibility algorithm there is.

  START in the sector under the camera, with a clip window that is the
    horizontal angular interval of the view frustum
  FOR EACH two-sided line of the current sector, take the angular
    interval it subtends from the eye. Intersect it with the current
    window. Empty means that opening cannot be seen from here, so the
    sector behind it cannot be either — STOP
  OTHERWISE recurse into the neighbour with the NARROWED window
  A ONE-SIDED LINE is a wall. It is not a portal, so the flood does not
    cross it, and that is the entire occlusion test. Occlusion here is
    not something computed; it is the ABSENCE of a portal

CLIP IN THE HORIZONTAL ANGLE ONLY. Not a screen rectangle. The world is
a sector world and the interesting occluders are all vertical, so an
interval is enough, and an interval is two floats and a compare. It is
CONSERVATIVE — a portal that is only visible above or below the window
still lets the flood through — and conservative in the safe direction:
it draws things it did not need to and never hides a thing it should
have drawn. A vertical interval can go in later if a three-storey town
turns out to want one, and it will be the same twenty lines again.

WHAT IT BUYS, concretely, on the town in TOWN.txt: standing in a kitchen
you draw the kitchen, the hall through its door, and whatever the front
door frames of the street. Standing on Elm Street you draw Elm Street,
the two cross streets you can see down, and nothing whatever of the
twenty-three blocks behind the houses — because there is no portal
through a house. That is not a heuristic that mostly works; it is the
correct answer, and it falls out of the data model that is already there.

THE COST is proportional to the sectors you can actually see, which is
tens indoors and a couple of hundred down a street, and it runs ONCE A
FRAME rather than per tic. A sector can be reached through more than one
portal, so each keeps a short list of intervals with a cap on it; past
the cap, merge to the hull, which is conservative again.

THE TWO THINGS THAT WILL GO WRONG:

  A BIG OUTDOOR SECTOR HAS HUNDREDS OF PORTALS. The car park is a
    handful of enormous sectors with an opening every few hundred
    units along their edges. That is hundreds of interval tests in one
    sector, which is fine, and a large visible set, which is CORRECT —
    you can see the whole car park. The answer to a large visible set
    outdoors is the fog distance, not the flood.
  THE SET CHANGES DISCONTINUOUSLY as you step through a door, which
    pops a block in. One frame of hysteresis — keep last frame's set as
    well as this one's — costs one union and removes it.


WHAT THE FLOOD ALSO CULLS
-------------------------

The flood produces a set of visible sectors, and almost everything
expensive in this renderer is attached to a sector.

  THE BATCHES        TOWN.txt's per-block batching becomes per-block
                       DRAWING: visible sectors, then their blocks, then
                       those batches. The two plans meet here and this
                       is the only place they touch
  THE CROWD          700 billboards, each its own draw call, currently
                       culled by an 80-degree cone against a 48-degree
                       field because a spun quad's bounds lie. An actor
                       whose sector is not in the visible set is not
                       drawn, which is exact where the cone is generous,
                       and the README already measures this as the
                       second biggest cost in the frame
  THE FOREST         a chunk whose ground sector is not visible is
                       skipped, on top of its existing distance and LOD
                       rules rather than instead of them
  THE FIRE'S POOL    the candidates are already sorted nearest-and-
                       hottest; drop the ones in invisible sectors
                       before sorting rather than after
  THE VEHICLES, THE DECALS, THE TRACERS  all the same rule

AND IT COMPOSES WITH THE FOG. A sector that is visible but beyond fogFar
is not drawn either, because the air in front of it is opaque. Two tests,
both exact, both free of tuning.


LOD: FOUR DISTANCES AND WHO IS ON THEM
--------------------------------------

The forest already has this and it is the model to copy rather than to
generalise: three chunk sizes, bands at fractions of the kind's range, a
coarse chunk drawn only when every fine chunk under it is far enough, and
a fine chunk only when neither of its parents is. That last rule is what
makes it exact instead of approximately right, and whatever the town does
should have a rule of the same shape.

  L0   0 .. 2000        everything. Interiors, furniture, decals, the
                          crowd at full rate
  L1   2000 .. 6000     shells. No interior sectors in the batch, no
                          furniture things, windows as a texture rather
                          than as an opening. Nothing you can see at
                          2000 units and 200 rows of picture goes away
  L2   6000 .. fogFar   the block as one merged batch with no openings
                          in it at all — a silhouette and a roofline,
                          which is all that survives the air by then
  L3   past fogFar      nothing, and the test proves the air is opaque
                          there

THE BANDS ARE FRACTIONS OF fogFar AND NOT CONSTANTS. In mist, fogFar is
2600 and L1 starts at 700, and the whole ladder pulls in together with
the thing that made it necessary. Constants here would mean drawing L0
detail into fog nobody can see through, which is the exact mistake the
forest's own `reach` multiplier already avoids.

AND THE FOREST'S RANGE BECOMES fogFar TOO. It is currently a player
setting called THE WOOD, and the README measures it as "the single
biggest thing in the frame — two to three times the frame rate on its
own". Keep the setting; make it a multiplier on fogFar rather than an
absolute distance, so that a player who turns the wood down in clear
weather is making the same KIND of decision the weather makes for them.


WHAT IT COSTS, FILE BY FILE
---------------------------

  js/skyart.js        NEW. tools/bake-sky.mjs's work, moved into the
                        page, taking a time and a weather instead of a
                        JPEG, compositing the kept photograph as the
                        star layer.                        ~350 lines
  js/sky.js           nothing. It takes a texture and does not ask
                        where from. Possibly one line to swap the map.
  js/material.js      the fog split into air and smoke; the sky texture
                        as a uniform and the horizon fetch; the
                        skyLight line in worldBand.          ~60 lines
  js/weather.js       NEW. The clock, the keyframe table, the weather
                        rows, the wind vector, and the once-a-frame
                        push of about ten uniforms.         ~250 lines
  js/level.js         the portal flood: intervals, the visited set, the
                        per-sector interval lists, the hysteresis.
                        It is the only new algorithm here.  ~220 lines
  js/mapgeo.js        draw the visible block set rather than everything;
                        the L1/L2 batches.                  ~180 lines
  js/fire.js          stops owning fogColor and fogDensity and owns
                        only the smoke term; wind bias in _trySpread;
                        rain into douse.                     ~80 lines
  js/effects.js       WIND_X deleted, the wind read from the world
                        state. A net deletion.               ~20 lines
  js/forest.js        range from fogFar; the sway reads the real wind;
                        skip chunks whose sector is not visible.
                                                             ~40 lines
  js/actor.js         the cone cull replaced by the sector test.
                        Another net deletion.                ~30 lines
  js/rain.js          NEW. A wrapped box of streaks.        ~140 lines
  js/palette.js       A SKY RAMP — see below.

THE PALETTE IS FULL AND THIS IS THE ONE REAL TRADE IN THIS DOCUMENT.
256 entries, 14 ramps, and it sums to exactly 256 with nothing spare. A
dawn fills half the frame with a smooth gradient, and there is no ramp
that runs violet to rose to cold gold; it would snap into the blue ramp
and the pink ramp and band in stripes.

The fire got 44 entries on the argument that "the store burning down is
the only thing anybody is going to look at closely". A sky at dawn is
the second thing. It wants about twenty, and the honest places to find
them are grey (32, the largest) and cyan (12, the narrowest use). The
ordered dither before the snap is already there and is already the
reason a 256-colour gradient reads as a gradient at all — the ramp is
the missing half of that.

WHICH ENTRIES COME FROM WHERE IS A DECISION TO MAKE BY LOOKING AT THE
FRAME, not in a plan. What a plan can say is that it is twenty entries,
that it is a real cost, and that a dawn without it will look like a
mistake rather than like a dawn.


HOW IT IS BUILT — THE ORDER
---------------------------

  1  THE AIR, on the map that exists and at the hour it already is.
     Split fog into air and smoke. Give the air the sky texture's
     horizon row. Bring the far plane in from 16000 to fogFar. Nothing
     changes about the look except that THE FOREST'S FAR CUT
     DISAPPEARS, and that is the phase's proof: one screenshot, at the
     edge of the wood, before and after.

  2  THE SKY AS A BAKE. js/skyart.js, with the photograph composited in
     as the star layer and the clock nailed to 02:00. The picture that
     comes out should be indistinguishable from the picture that goes
     in. If it is not, stop here, because everything after this is
     moving a thing that is not yet correct where it stands.

  3  THE LIGHT STOPS BEING BAKED. The skyLight uniform and the one line
     in worldBand. Verified by turning it up and down with no
     rebuildStatic call anywhere and no frame-time spike.

  4  THE CLOCK. The five keyframes, the interpolation, the uniform
     push, and a debug key that scrubs the hour. This is the first
     phase that is worth showing anybody.

  5  WEATHER AND WIND. The four rows, the wind as a vector, WIND_X
     deleted, rain as particles, rain into douse, wind into spread.
     Burn a roof off in the rain — that is the phase's proof and it is
     also the best thing in this document.

  6  THE PORTAL FLOOD. Against the mall, where the answer can be
     checked by eye: stand in the stockroom and count what is drawn.
     Then hand its output to the crowd, the forest and the fire pool.

  7  THE LOD LADDER. Which needs TOWN.txt's per-block batching to exist
     and is the only thing here that does.

Phases 1 to 5 are worth doing whether or not a town is ever built.
Phase 6 is worth twice as much with one. Phase 7 is meaningless without
one.


THE TEST
--------

1576 checks pass headless in about three minutes. These are the ones this
work makes possible, and several of them are the kind that only a
system built this way can state at all:

  THE FOG MATCHES THE SKY. Evaluate the sky bake for a given time and
    weather; take the horizon row; and assert it equals what the fog
    term would resolve to for a fragment at that azimuth and a depth
    past fogFar. This is the headline claim of the whole document and
    it is a numeric equality, not a screenshot
  MIXING THE SKY TOWARD THE AIR IS THE IDENTITY, which is why the sky
    takes the smoke term and not the air term
  EVERY KEYFRAME'S COLOURS SURVIVE THE PALETTE. Snap each one and
    assert the error is under a threshold — the check that says whether
    the sky ramp is big enough, and the one that will fail first if
    somebody takes entries back
  THE RAMP IS MONOTONIC IN LUMA between keyframes, so no hour of the
    night is brighter than the one after it by accident. The palette
    test already asserts exactly this shape for its four ramps
  skyLight AT 0 REPRODUCES TODAY'S FRAME, surface for surface, on
    every sector of the existing map. The regression that matters
  THE FLOOD NEVER HIDES A SECTOR THAT IS VISIBLE. Cast sight rays from
    the eye through a grid of directions with Level.sightBlocked, which
    already exists at js/level.js:497, collect every sector hit, and
    assert that set is a SUBSET of the flood's. Conservative in the
    safe direction, proven rather than assumed
  AND IT HIDES SOMETHING. From inside the stockroom with the door shut,
    assert the car park is not in the set — a flood that returns
    everything passes the test above and is worthless
  RAIN PUTS A GUTTED SECTOR OUT AND DOES NOT TOUCH AN INTACT ONE
  WIND MAKES A FIRE ASYMMETRIC: light one cell, run it, and assert the
    burnt area's centre of mass has moved downwind
  FOUR HUNDRED TICS IN EACH WEATHER and the cast list is unchanged,
    which is the line the existing quality-settings test already holds:
    weather is drawing and simulation, and it must not become a
    difficulty setting by accident

And printed as notes rather than asserted, beside the gunship's node
count and the music's bpm: the visible sector count and the draw call
count from six standing positions, in each weather. So that the day
somebody doubles it, it is in the test output and nobody has to go
looking.


WHAT THIS PLAN DOES NOT DO
--------------------------

  It does not light anything. There is still one light in the game and
    it is the fire. The sun does not cast a shadow, the moon does not
    pick out a kerb, and dawn is a change in ambient and in the sky's
    colour and nothing else. Doing better would mean normals, and
    normals would mean this stops being the renderer it is
  It does not make the sky a physical model. No Rayleigh, no Mie, no
    turbidity. Five hand-set keyframes and an interpolation, because
    the output is 256 colours at 200 rows and a scattering integral
    would be thrown away by the snap
  It does not do vertical occlusion. The flood is horizontal, which is
    conservative and correct and will draw a second floor you cannot
    quite see
  It does not do a full day. Five keyframes from 23:00 to sunrise. A
    daytime level is more rows in the same table and a different game
  It does not make weather change during a night. A night has a
    weather. Transitions are an interpolation between two rows and
    nobody has asked for one
  It does not put water on the ground. Rain falls, damps fuel and
    stops; there is no wet floor texture, no puddle, no reflection, and
    reflection in particular is a different renderer
  It does not snow
  It does not address the fact that the sky's own ground is what shows
    below the horizon, which is correct at night and is a dark green
    photograph of a golf course at dawn. Phase 2 should replace the
    lower half of the sphere with a flat ground colour from the
    keyframe table, and if it does not, phase 4 will make that obvious
    within a second of anyone scrubbing the clock
